README.md, before:

# KSCM Feed Processor

Reads the unified 10 campus KSCM kinesis stream and pushes course changes into Banner.

## AWS Credentials

The AWS Credentials are stored in the usual place: `~/.aws/credentials`

```
[stg]
aws_access_key_id=
aws_secret_access_key=

[prd]
aws_access_key_id=
aws_secret_access_key=
```

NOTE: In above we used AWS credential _profiles_. But you don't need to set the AWS_PROFILE environment variable. 
The app was designed so that the `spring.profiles.active` Spring Environment Property determines the AWS credentials profile. 
For example, setting `SPRING_PROFILES_ACTIVE=stg` is sufficient. 


## How to run


```
SPRING_PROFILES_ACTIVE=stg java -jar target/kscm-feed-processor-0.0.8-SNAPSHOT.jar
```

or, if you prefer JVM system properties:

```
java -Dspring.profiles.active=stg -jar target/kscm-feed-processor-0.0.8-SNAPSHOT.jar
```

**NOTE:** Above commands are for the _staging_ environment. For _production_, swap `stg` with `prd`. 

## How to run as a Unix/Linux service

We followed the approach outlined here:

- [Installing Spring Boot applications § Unix/Linux services § Installation as an init.d service (System V)](https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/current/reference/html/deployment-install.html#deployment-initd-service)<br>
  _docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/current/reference/html/deployment-install.html#deployment-initd-service_

First, we configure maven to generate a _fully executable jar_. This requires adding just three lines to the pom.xml:
```
 <build>
   <plugins>
      <plugin>
       <groupId>org.springframework.boot</groupId>
       <artifactId>spring-boot-maven-plugin</artifactId>
+      <configuration>
+        <executable>true</executable>
+      </configuration>
     </plugin>
   </plugins>
 </build>
```

The deployment directory should be like:

```sh
$ pwd
/home/kscm2ban

$ tree
.
├── config
│   ├── application-prd.properties
│   ├── application.properties
│   └── application-stg.properties
├── kscm-feed-processor-0.0.8-SNAPSHOT.conf
├── kscm-feed-processor-0.0.8-SNAPSHOT.jar
├── kscm-feed-processor.jar -> kscm-feed-processor-0.0.8-SNAPSHOT.jar
└── logs
    └── kscm-feed-processor-stg.log
```

We create the unversioned symlink because we don't want the version to be part of the SysVinit service name (which we are about to create).

The `.conf` file can be used to set a handful of environment variables that affect how the jar is started. 
It is 
[part](https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/current/reference/html/deployment-install.html#deployment-script-customization-when-it-runs)
of the functionality built into Spring Boot's _fully executable jar_ 
feature. We use it to specify the active Spring profile(s) by setting the JAVA_OPTS environment variable:

```sh
$ cat kscm-feed-processor-0.0.8-SNAPSHOT.conf
JAVA_OPTS=-Dspring.profiles.active=stg
```

Finally, we create the SysVinit service:
```sh
# Symlink the fully executable jar into /etc/init.d
sudo ln -s /tmp/kscm-feed-processor/kscm-feed-processor.jar /etc/init.d/kscm-feed-processor.jar

# Add the service
sudo chkconfig --add kscm-feed-processor.jar

# Check what default run levels have been enabled
$ chkconfig --list kscm-feed-processor.jar
kscm-feed-processor.jar 0:off 1:off 2:off 3:on 4:on 5:on 6:off

# Manually start it
sudo service kscm-feed-processor.jar start

# Check status
$ sudo service kscm-feed-processor.jar status
Running [15630]

# Stop it
$ sudo service kscm-feed-processor.jar stop
Stopped [15630]
```

NOTE: A feature of Spring Boot's fully executable jar is that it changes the 
`current working directory` to the directory containing the `jar` file. That's
how it is able to detect the `.conf` file sitting in the same directory. It is also 
what allows us to specify the log file location as relative to the `jar` file location.

## Installation as a systemd service
The above linked spring-boot document has a section on installing as a systemd service.
However, our current deployement server is running RHEL6 and "RHEL6 isn't systemd-based. 
It's … the last RHEL that uses old-style SYSV init scripts" https://serverfault.com/questions/740404

## Logging

Spring Boot bakes in best practices for using java in an enterprise environment. 
As such, it includes intelligent logging defaults.

By default, Spring Boot apps using the logback logging framework and configures to use 
a rolling file appender that gets rolled when the file reaches 10 MB. Seems reasonable.

We used the `logging.file` Spring Environment property to configure the logs to be 
relative to the current working directory (which, if using the _fully executed jar_ feature, gets set
to the directory containing the `jar` file):

```
logging.file=logs/kscm-feed-processor-${app.profile}.log
```

Related links:
- [Spring Boot Reference Guide § 76. Logging](https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/current/reference/html/howto-logging.html)<br>
  _docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/current/reference/html/howto-logging.html_
- [Spring Boot's default logback configuration](https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-boot/tree/master/spring-boot/src/main/resources/org/springframework/boot/logging/logback)<br>
  _github.com/spring-projects/spring-boot/tree/master/spring-boot/src/main/resources/org/springframework/boot/logging/logback_
- [Using Logback with Spring Boot](https://springframework.guru/using-logback-spring-boot/)<br>
  _https://springframework.guru/using-logback-spring-boot/_
  

## Logging to console

We've disabled logging to console by default in the `logback-spring.xml` logging configuration file, because this application is designed to be a server process.

When developing with your IDE, however, you'll want to enable logging to console. We used conditional directives
in `logback-spring.xml` to enable logging to console when the `console` profile is active.
Thus, in your IDE's run configuration, you'll want to add `console` as an active profile using a JVM parameter like this: `-Dspring.profiles.active=stg,console`.

Commit message:

Use JAVA_HOME in .conf file to select Java 8

README.md, after:

# KSCM Feed Processor

Reads the unified 10 campus KSCM kinesis stream and pushes course changes into Banner.

## AWS Credentials

The AWS Credentials are stored in the usual place: `~/.aws/credentials`

```
[stg]
aws_access_key_id=
aws_secret_access_key=

[prd]
aws_access_key_id=
aws_secret_access_key=
```

NOTE: In above we used AWS credential _profiles_. But you don't need to set the AWS_PROFILE environment variable. 
The app was designed so that the `spring.profiles.active` Spring Environment Property determines the AWS credentials profile. 
For example, setting `SPRING_PROFILES_ACTIVE=stg` is sufficient. 


## How to run


```
SPRING_PROFILES_ACTIVE=stg java -jar target/kscm-feed-processor-0.0.8-SNAPSHOT.jar
```

or, if you prefer JVM system properties:

```
java -Dspring.profiles.active=stg -jar target/kscm-feed-processor-0.0.8-SNAPSHOT.jar
```

**NOTE:** Above commands are for the _staging_ environment. For _production_, swap `stg` with `prd`. 

## How to run as a Unix/Linux service

We followed the approach outlined here:

- [Installing Spring Boot applications § Unix/Linux services § Installation as an init.d service (System V)](https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/current/reference/html/deployment-install.html#deployment-initd-service)<br>
  _docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/current/reference/html/deployment-install.html#deployment-initd-service_

First, we configure maven to generate a _fully executable jar_. This requires adding just three lines to the pom.xml:
```
 <build>
   <plugins>
      <plugin>
       <groupId>org.springframework.boot</groupId>
       <artifactId>spring-boot-maven-plugin</artifactId>
+      <configuration>
+        <executable>true</executable>
+      </configuration>
     </plugin>
   </plugins>
 </build>
```

The deployment directory should be like:

```sh
$ pwd
/home/kscm2ban

$ tree
.
├── config
│   ├── application-prd.properties
│   ├── application.properties
│   └── application-stg.properties
├── kscm-feed-processor-0.0.8-SNAPSHOT.conf
├── kscm-feed-processor-0.0.8-SNAPSHOT.jar
├── kscm-feed-processor.jar -> kscm-feed-processor-0.0.8-SNAPSHOT.jar
└── logs
    └── kscm-feed-processor-stg.log
```

We create the unversioned symlink because we don't want the version to be part of the SysVinit service name (which we are about to create).

The `.conf` file can be used to set a handful of environment variables that affect how the jar is started. 
It is 
[part](https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/current/reference/html/deployment-install.html#deployment-script-customization-when-it-runs)
of the functionality built into Spring Boot's _fully executable jar_ 
feature. We use it to set two environment variables:

1. JAVA_OPTS: to specify the active Spring profile(s), and
2. JAVA_HOME: to select the Java 8 JVM

```sh
$ cat kscm-feed-processor-0.0.8-SNAPSHOT.conf
JAVA_OPTS=-Dspring.profiles.active=stg
JAVA_HOME=/usr/java/latest
```

A

Finally, we create the SysVinit service:
```sh
# Symlink the fully executable jar into /etc/init.d
sudo ln -s /tmp/kscm-feed-processor/kscm-feed-processor.jar /etc/init.d/kscm-feed-processor.jar

# Add the service
sudo chkconfig --add kscm-feed-processor.jar

# Check what default run levels have been enabled
$ chkconfig --list kscm-feed-processor.jar
kscm-feed-processor.jar 0:off 1:off 2:off 3:on 4:on 5:on 6:off

# Manually start it
sudo service kscm-feed-processor.jar start

# Check status
$ sudo service kscm-feed-processor.jar status
Running [15630]

# Stop it
$ sudo service kscm-feed-processor.jar stop
Stopped [15630]
```

NOTE: A feature of Spring Boot's fully executable jar is that it changes the 
`current working directory` to the directory containing the `jar` file. That's
how it is able to detect the `.conf` file sitting in the same directory. It is also 
what allows us to specify a relative path to the log file.

## Installation as a systemd service
The above linked spring-boot document has a section on installing as a systemd service.
However, our current deployement server is running RHEL6 and "RHEL6 isn't systemd-based. 
It's … the last RHEL that uses old-style SYSV init scripts" https://serverfault.com/questions/740404

## Logging

Spring Boot bakes in best practices for using java in an enterprise environment. 
As such, it includes intelligent logging defaults.

By default, Spring Boot apps using the [Logback](https://logback.qos.ch/) logging framework and configures to use 
a rolling file appender that gets rolled when the file reaches 10 MB. Seems reasonable.

We used the `logging.file` Spring Environment property to configure the logs to be 
relative to the current working directory (which, if using the _fully executable jar_ feature, gets set
to the directory containing the `jar` file):

```
logging.file=logs/kscm-feed-processor-${app.profile}.log
```

Related links:
- [Spring Boot Reference Guide § 76. Logging](https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/current/reference/html/howto-logging.html)<br>
  _docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/current/reference/html/howto-logging.html_
- [Spring Boot's default logback configuration](https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-boot/tree/master/spring-boot/src/main/resources/org/springframework/boot/logging/logback)<br>
  _github.com/spring-projects/spring-boot/tree/master/spring-boot/src/main/resources/org/springframework/boot/logging/logback_
- [Using Logback with Spring Boot](https://springframework.guru/using-logback-spring-boot/)<br>
  _https://springframework.guru/using-logback-spring-boot/_
  

## Logging to console

We've disabled logging to console by default in the `logback-spring.xml` logging configuration file, because this application is designed to be a server process.

When developing with your IDE, however, you'll want to enable logging to console. We used conditional directives
in `logback-spring.xml` to enable logging to console when the `console` profile is active.
Thus, in your IDE's run configuration, you'll want to add `console` as an active profile using a JVM parameter like this: `-Dspring.profiles.active=stg,console`.
